# TransM

TransM is a translation assistant tool for Markdown document which keeps your translation maintainable.

## Installation

You need Deno before installing this tool.

Then, install TransM CLI.

```
$ deno install --allow-read --allow-write https://deno.land/x/transm/transm.ts
```

## Getting Started

Let's start translation with a simple markdown text (`example.md`) as below:

```markdown
# Title

* item1
* item2
```

The command `$ transm new` creates a markdown file for translation from a target file.

```
$ transm new example.md translation.md
```

The file `translation.md` generated by the command looks like:

```markdown
<!-- L1..1
# Title
-->

# Title

<!-- L3..4
* item1
* item2
-->

* item1
* item2
```

You can edit `translation.md` as you like except comment blocks, which represent texts and positions of the original file. Of cource you can use machine translation such as Google Translate or DeepL. Suppose the file will be edited as below:

```markdown
<!-- L1..1
# Title
-->

# 表題

<!-- L3..4
* item1
* item2
-->

* 要素1
* 要素2
```

OK. Translation has been done.

But, you might be curious about the case when the original file `example.md` changes. In that case, you can use the command `$ transm update`.

Suppose the `example.md` is edited as below:

```diff
 * item1
 * item2
+* item3
```

The command `$ transm update` updates the translation file following the change of the original file.

```
$ transm update example.md translation.md
```

The file `translation.md` will be updated as below. Notice that the second block is updated.

```markdown
<!-- L1..1
# Title
-->

# 表題

<!-- L3..5
* item1
* item2
* item3
-->

* item1
* item2
* item3
```

You can re-translate the updated text after the `update` command. In this way, TransM supports "continuous translation".

## Advanced Usage

#### How to process multiple files?

Use UNIX command together. Example:

```
$ ls target/ | xargs -I{} transm new target/{} translate/{}
```

## Development

Testing.

```
$ deno test test/
```

Run in local.

```
$ ./bin/transm
```
